feat: add Cilium momentum blog (#955)
cilium/cilium.io: src/posts/2026-03-23-ciliumcon-momentum/index.md

---
path: '/blog/2026/03/23/2026-03-23-ciliumcon-momentum'
date: '2026-03-23T12:00:00.000Z'
title: 'Celebrating 10 Years of Cilium: What’s New and What’s Next'
ogImage: CiliumCon2026.png
isPopular: true
ogSummary: 'As Cilium turns 10, learn what the next decade of Cilium holds from CiliumCon and KubeCon in Amsterdam.'
categories:
  - Community
tags:
  - Cilium
---

![](CiliumCon2026.png)

**_Author: Katie Meinders, Isovalent_**

Cilium is officially 10 years old and has firmly established itself as the default CNI for production cloud native deployments. It has been adopted by all of the major cloud providers, and, driven by customer demand, many other clouds and Kubernetes distributions are investing heavily in Cilium as their CNI of choice. According to the recent State of Kubernetes Networking report, Cilium represents over 60% of CNI deployments, more than double the next alternative.

> This stability is also a reflection of the community behind the technology. Cilium is now made up of a growing community of over 1,010 developers, and the project now has over 23,600 GitHub stars. Annual development activity has grown 55x since year one, with nearly 10,000 PRs contributed in 2025 alone.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stability is also a reflection of the community behind the technology. Cilium is now made up of a growing community of over 1,010 developers, and the project now has over 24,000 GitHub stars. Annual development activity has grown 55x since year one, with nearly 10,000 PRs contributed in 2025 alone.
```

> Looking ahead to the next decade, Cilium is already established as the networking data plane for AI. Microsoft and Google are already using Cilium to run some of the largest AI training clusters in the world. Organizations like ESnet and TikTok are running Cilium in IPv6-only data centers with massive scale. Simultaneously, Tetragon is positioned to redefine the runtime security landscape while tools like Cluster Mesh and KubeVirt together will enable organizations to run both VMs and containers on a consistent networking plane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Looking ahead to the next decade, Cilium is already established as the networking data plane for AI. Microsoft and Google use Cilium to run some of the largest AI training clusters in the world. Organizations like ESnet and TikTok are running Cilium in IPv6-only data centers with massive scale. Simultaneously, Tetragon is positioned to redefine the runtime security landscape while tools like Cluster Mesh and KubeVirt together will enable organizations to run both VMs and containers on a consistent networking plane.
```
